To give you an idea of how I create these videos, I typically batch record during the
week and then I batch edit on the weekend, primarily because I want to break between
the two.
By the time I'm done recording an episode, the last thing I want to do is hear myself
talk about what I just recorded.
It's just, I'm tired of hearing my voice.
That gives me an opportunity to go back over the things that was covered, the code that
I wrote or presented, and just to see how stupid I am sometimes, because we all do it.
We all write code and we all return to that code at some other point and we think, what
in the world were we thinking?
And yeah, permissions are one of those things.
Let's look at the store user request, because this set off red flags, and no, that wasn't
the right one.
The store ticket request.
The set off red flags, I knew this was not really the best approach, but I wanted to
get it done so that we can move on.
How many times do we do that and then we regret it?
So, okay, as a refresher, this is a request that's being used by the ticket controller
and the author ticket controller.
And so we needed to get the appropriate author ID attribute so that we could assign the correct
rules for that.
And in this particular case, the default rule was for like a manager or an admin so that
they could create a ticket for any user.
But then we checked to see, well, if the user can only create their own tickets, well, then
we need a more restrictive rule.
And it works, but it forced us, or forced me rather, to add this comment to the get
abilities method on the abilities class.
And that was to not assign an asterisk, because if a user has an asterisk as an ability, this
if statement is going to be true.
Therefore, it's going to limit their ability to create tickets for other users.
And that's not the approach.
That is the wrong thing to do.
I should have designed that a little bit better.
And it's really not that hard.
All we need to do is follow the concept of least privilege or the principle of least
privilege.
If you're not familiar with this, it's not a programming thing.
It's just a security thing.
The idea is that regardless of what the user is, you assign the most restrictive permissions
for that user.
And then if they need more authority, you grant them that authority.
So if we were going to follow the principle of least privilege, we would do two things
here.
The first would be that for every user, it didn't matter if they were a typical user
or a manager or an admin, they would be assigned the create own ticket, update on ticket and
delete on ticket abilities, because those are the least privilege.
But then if the user was a manager, we would also assign these other abilities.
And if it was an admin, it wouldn't matter.
We'd give them the asterisk so that they could do all of the things.
And we don't necessarily need to do that here.
But we do, however, need to apply the principle of least privilege in our rules.
So for the sake of creating a new ticket, we need to set as the default validation rules
the most restrictive rules.
That means that by default, the author ID attribute needs to match the signed in user's
ID, because that is the least privilege for any user.
But then if we needed to grant more authority, like for example, for a manager, if they can
create a ticket, then we modify the rule so that they can create that ticket.
So this means for all users that can only create a ticket for themselves unless if they
have the authority to create tickets for anyone.
So that would be a manager, or if an admin had an asterisk, then this would grant them
the ability to create a ticket for any user.
But now we have two strings that are essentially the same.
And that means we need to create a variable to store that.
So let's just call this author rule.
And we will start with that so that for the default rule, we will take that author rule
variable and concatenate that with the size to limit the user ID.
But then if the user can create a ticket for anyone, we set the more authority there.
So that would solve our problem, and we're good there.
But I think we also did that inside of the update ticket request.
So in this case, the author ID should be prohibited by default.
And then if the user has the authority to update a ticket, then we should grant them
the authority to update the author ID.
So that would fix that problem.
We can now assign an asterisk to a user because that's part of the system.
We need to build for the system.
So therefore, we are good to go there.
So crisis averted.
But I'm not done talking about permissions.
Because if we take a look at the ticket controller, you know, we have this is able method.
This is a method that we use so that we can check the appropriate policy for an ability
and a model.
And it is modeled after the authenticate method.
But I would prefer to do something like this, to where we would have an if statement is
able to update the provided ticket.
Well, then we would update the ticket, return the ticket resource.
Otherwise, we would return the error stating that user is not authorized to update that
resource.
That way we can get rid of the other catch for the authentication exception.
And this just makes our code a little cleaner.
So we can easily do this.
All we need to do is modify our is able method here.
So that's inside of here.
We try to authorize the user.
And if that succeeds, we return true.
We will catch the authentication exception, in which case we will just return false.
So that means we can go back to our controllers and we can modify these so that we could have
an if statement and then do what we need to do.
Otherwise, we return our not authorized message.
Let's scroll on down and let's use an if statement.
If is able to delete the ticket, then we will delete it.
We will return an OK response.
Otherwise, we return the unauthorized message saying that they cannot delete that resource.
And we should probably look at the store method because I'm pretty sure we check that ability.
We do here.
All we need is an if statement.
Return the new ticket resource if we can.
Otherwise, we return our error.
Now, we can do that in all of our other controllers.
I'm not going to do that on screen because it's quite a bit and you don't need to see me doing that.
Or rather, you don't want to see me doing that.
Now, in the next episode, we will talk about handling errors, which we've kind of done.
But we need a more complete and comprehensive approach.